Among the reasons for migrating, push factors

encourage relocation away from original residence areas.

affect international migration but not domestic relocation.

reflect assessments of action space attraction.

draw migrants to specific destinations.


Companies that have headquarters in one country and subsidiary companies and other facilities in several countries are known as

transnational corporations (TNCs).

outsourcing organizations (OOs).

global partnerships (GPs).

flexible spenders (Fss).


Totally or partially autonomous political units that are small in area and have less than 1 million people are known as

ministates.

nanonations.

millilands.

microunits


Territorial seas under the Law of the Sea extend out to

12 nautical miles.

24 nautical miles.

350 nautical miles.

200 nautical miles.


The western portion of the boundary between the United States and Canada is classified as

a natural boundary.

a water divide.

an artificial boundary.

a disputed boundary.


An example of gerrymandering would be establishing

voting districts drawn to give one political party an unfair legislative advantage.

taxing bodies and districts based upon differential storm drainage and sewage problems.

central city and suburban municipal boundaries.

separate-but-equal attendance districts.


The claim of India and Pakistan to the Kashmir region is based on the area's substantial Hindu and Muslim populations and is an example of

irredentism.

devolution.

historicism.

supranationalism.


Which of the following examples is an example of involuntary migration?

the migration of millions Africans to the Western Hemisphere in the late 16th through early 19th Centuries

the migration of elderly Americans to the Sun Belt

migrations motivated by powerful pull factors

migrations motivated by the positive place utility of the destination


The two preconditions common to all separatist movements are

territory and nationality

independence and customs.

religion and language.

ethnicity and statehood.


What term refers to the emotional attachment to and the defense of home ground?

Territoriality

Public utility

Mental map

Ethocentricity


Exemplifying chain migration, immigrants from India, mostly from the state of Gujarat, now own more than one-third of what type of business in the United States?

Hotels

Beauty salons

Fruit stores

Diners


Environmental justice is

the fair treatment of all people so that no group bears a disproportionate burden of environmental pollution.

the doctrine that no country should be allowed to export wastes to another.

the concept that the needs of all living organisms and ecosystems be equally respected.

the practice in which polluting facilities are located where there is the lease political resistance.


Which one of the following associations is correct?

Philippines-fragmented

South Africa-elongated

Thailand-compact

Norway-perforated


The area of original settlement in a state that usually contains its densest population and largest cities is called the

core area.

central artery.

focal point

nucleus.


The strategy of drawing political boundaries so as to dilute the opposition's strength by dividing its votes among a number of districts is known as the

wasted vote.

excess vote.

electoral vote.

stacked vote.


Exclusive economic zones recognized under the law of Sea Convention extend outward from coasts by

200 nautical miles.

200 kilometers.

200 meters.

200 miles.


Which of the following is considered a pull factor in regard to migration

amenities of living in Australia

persecution of Jews in Nazi Germany

nomads fleeing famine and spreading desert in the Sahel

high unemployment in Appalachia


In the 20th century, nearly all countries continued to experience this pattern of migration that first became prominent in the advanced countries in the 18th century and 19th century.

Rural to urban

Urban to rural

Internal to external

Northern to southern


A diffusion process that follows an S-shape curved indicates that the innovation

first spread slowly, then more rapidly until saturation occurred.

was first adopted by people in large cities, then by those in lower-order centers.

was adopted in numbers corresponding to the population density.

first had few adopters, then underwent an explosive pattern of growth.



The concept of activity space is useful for better understanding that each human

has a territory with which he/she is most familiar.

is confined to a region within which he/she interacts with others.

is busy doing those things that he/she must in order to live happily.

has an exact schedule or routine that he/she carries out within a specified region.


Scientists estimate the Arctic seabed might contain this much of the world's undiscovered oil, gas, and minerals.

25 percent

5 percent

35 percent

15 percent


The dissolution of European empires is this century is noteworthy for all of the following reasons EXCEPT the

fact that the European powers relinquished their control peacefully.

fact that former colonies have become independent states.

fact that former colonies covered large parts of the globe.

speed with which empires dissolved after World War II.


The term used to describe differences between our cognition of distance and real distance is

psychological distance.

projected distance.

perceptual distance.

time-distance.


The association of countries created for mutual benefit and achievement of shared objectives is

supranationalism.

regionalism.

nationalism.

subnationalism.


According to the United Nations Development Fund, some 30 percent of the world's population lives on less than___per day.

$1

$100

$10

$1000


Which of the following statements is not correct with respect to hierarchical diffusion?

It occurs only after all lower levels in the hierarchy have received the information

Small towns closer to high-level centers can receive the information before the more distant medium-sized centers

People near large innovation centers often benefit as information diffuses outward

It often occurs simultaneously with the other two methods of diffusion


The tendency for individuals in domestic relocation to move from small places to larger ones is known as

hierarchical migration.

counter migration.

return migration.

channelized migration.


Areas that dominate a locale's immigration and emigration patterns are known as

migration fields.

migration spaces.

migration venues.

migration hierarchies.


The now universal idea of the modern state was developed in the 18th century by political philosophers in what world region?

Europe

East Asia

North America

North Africa


The Euro is the single currency of

Portugal

Turkey

Canada

Great Britain


Before 1988, the Soviet Union was an example of a

multinational state.

single nation and single state.

stateless nation.

part nation state.


South Africa is an example of a(an)____state.

perforated

elongated

fragmented

compact


Barriers to interaction do NOT include

Transportation centers

Distance

Cost

Language differences


Which of the following is the best example of hierarchical diffusion?

A fashion being introduced in New York City and slowly becoming popular in smaller cities and towns

a flu epidemic moving through a country

A political idea spread through television ads

Immigrants introducing native farming methods to their new homeland


The Law of Sea Convention contains provisions for all of the following EXCEPT

100-nautical mile exclusive economic zones.

freedom of the high seas.

recognition of the deep seabed and its resources as the "common heritage of mankind."

a 12-nautical mile limit for territorial waters over which states can exercise sovereignty.


According to the text, transnational corporations (TNCs) control about what percentage of the world's productive assets?

33 percent

70 percent

2 percent

10 percent


Since 2000, which region of the United States has not seen population growth due to net migration flows?

Northeast

Southwest

West

Southeast


Globalization is affected by all but which of the following?

place utility integration

international banking

political integration

global marketing


According to the Law of Sea Convention, within its exclusive economic zone, a state

will have exclusive rights to fish and to extract minerals.

may claim exclusive sovereignty.

must provide for energy resource exploitation by "geographically disadvantaged" countries.

has fishing rights but only limited access to nonliving resources.


Since World War II, coastal states have extended their seaward territorial claims

to control the exploitation of offshore fishing and mineral resources.

because of the desire to establish reliable shipping lanes between landmasses.

to restrict offshore sources of marine pollution and to prohibit the flow of illegal drugs.

because of world tensions and fear of naval attack.


The least efficient shape for the management of a state is

elongated.

compact.

fragmented.

prorupt.
